Standard Operating Procedure: IT Triage Dashboard Deployment

Document Purpose

This runbook details the deployment steps and architectural configuration for the Low-Code IT Support Triage application. It provides the necessary specifications for an engineer to replicate the database schema, frontend UI bindings, and event-driven automation logic.

Phase 1: Database Initialization

This phase provisions the PostgreSQL backend, acting as the relational data layer (architectural equivalent to Microsoft Dataverse).

1. Schema Creation

Initialize a new PostgreSQL database environment via the Retool Database interface.

Configure the database schema by establishing the support_tickets table with the following parameters:

id (Integer, Primary Key, Auto-Increment)

customer_name (Text)

issue_description (Text)

status (Text)

created_at (Timestamp/Date)

2. Data Seeding

Populate the table with initial mock data representing incoming tier-one support requests to validate downstream UI rendering.

Phase 2: Frontend Dashboard Configuration

This phase constructs the presentation layer, bridging the database to a user-friendly interface (architectural equivalent to Microsoft Power Apps).

1. Data Retrieval Query (getTickets)

Initialize a new blank web application.

Within the application scope, configure a new Resource Query targeting the PostgreSQL database.

Query String: SELECT * FROM support_tickets ORDER BY id ASC;

Purpose: This query establishes the initial data payload that will populate the frontend application state.

2. UI Data Binding

Deploy a Table component to the application canvas.

Map the Table's Data Source parameter to evaluate the application state: {{ getTickets.data }}.

Strategic Benefit: Binding the component directly to the query object ensures the UI remains synced with the backend data layer without requiring manual state management.

Phase 3: Event-Driven Automation Logic

This phase configures the action triggers and database mutations (architectural equivalent to Microsoft Power Automate).

1. Action Query Configuration (escalateTicket)

Initialize a new Resource Query configured for Page-level scope (ensure the query is nested under the specific page utilizing the Table component).

Action Type: Update an existing record.

Target Table: support_tickets

Filter Condition: id = {{ table1.selectedRow.id }}

Changeset: status = Escalated

Strategic Benefit: Scoping the filter dynamically to the selectedRow.id ensures the query targets strictly the exact record highlighted by the user, preventing blanket database updates.

2. Event Handler Orchestration

Deploy a Button component labeled "Escalate Ticket".

Bind an Event Handler to the Button's Click action to trigger the escalateTicket query.

Navigate to the escalateTicket query settings and bind an On Success Event Handler to trigger the getTickets query.

Strategic Benefit: This orchestration loop (Action -> Database Mutation -> Auto-Refresh) eliminates the need for the user to manually refresh the browser, providing a seamless "zero-touch" UI experience upon escalation.
